In the last lecture we talked about how we
described the position of objects in a two
dimensional world.
We used the example, for instance, a robot
and we created a two dimensional coordinate
frame.
We placed the coordinate frame at a reference
location and we can describe the position
of the robot with respect to that co-ordinate
frame.
We also talked about how we describe the orientation
of the object; that is which way the robot
is pointing with respect to the axes on this
co-ordinate frame.
Now what we are going to do is to kick it
up a level of complexity and introduce the
third dimension.
So for most robotics the third dimension is
really important.
The robots hand for instance, in any sort
of real robot, the hand is going to move in
a plane, but it is also going to be able to
move up and down.
So we need to be able to describe the position
and orientation of bodies in three-dimensional
space.
But there are also a lot of robots that move
in three-dimensional space.
So here I have a model airplane, or course
an airplane flies through the air.
It goes up and it goes down.
It can move left and right, and it can also
rotate in a number of interesting ways.
It can pitch up and down, it can yaw like
this, and it can roll like this.
So underwater robots are another example,
they are a bit like this but instead of flying
through the air, they are flying through the
water.
So these are two really important classes
of robots today, robots that fly and robots
that swim under the water and their motion
is described in terms of three-dimensional
space.
Where perhaps a simple wheeled robot like this,
we could get by with just describing it’s
position and it’s orientation in terms of
two-dimensional space.